.TH LATCH.CONF 5 "2026-03-09" "latch" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
latch.conf \- configuration file for latch terminal multiplexer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I ~/.latch/config
.SH DESCRIPTION
The latch configuration file uses a simple
.B key = value
format, one setting per line.
Lines starting with
.B #
are comments. Blank lines are ignored.
.PP
If the file does not exist, default values are used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B prefix = C-]
Prefix key for key bindings. Format:
.B C-x
where
.I x
is a letter (a-z) or bracket character ([ ] \\),
or a hex byte like
.BR 0x1d .
Default:
.B C-]
(Ctrl-]).
.TP
.B shell = /bin/zsh
Shell to spawn in new windows. Default: \fB$SHELL\fR or \fB/bin/sh\fR.
.TP
.B scrollback = 10000
Number of scrollback lines in the VT emulator. Default: \fB10000\fR.
.TP
.B max-sessions = 64
Maximum number of concurrent sessions. Default: \fB64\fR.
.TP
.B mouse = true
Enable mouse passthrough to applications.
Values: \fBtrue\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fByes\fR, \fBno\fR, \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB0\fR.
Default: \fBtrue\fR.
.TP
.B render-coalesce-ms = 2
Render coalesce delay in milliseconds. Lower values give more responsive
updates but higher CPU usage. Default: \fB2\fR.
.TP
.B ssh-addr = :2222
Default SSH listen address for \fBlatch new \-\-ssh\fR. Default: \fB:2222\fR.
.TP
.B web-addr = :7680
Default web listen address for \fBlatch new \-\-web\fR. Default: \fB:7680\fR.
.SS Relay Settings
.TP
.B relay-host = unixshells.com
Relay server hostname. Default: \fBunixshells.com\fR.
.TP
.B relay-user = rasengan
Username registered with the relay service.
.TP
.B relay-device = macbook
Device name. Defaults to the OS hostname during signup.
.TP
.B relay-enabled = true
Enable or disable the relay connection.
Values: \fBtrue\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fByes\fR, \fBno\fR, \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB0\fR.
Default: \fBfalse\fR.
.TP
.B relay-ca = /etc/latch/relay-ca.pem
CA certificate file for relay TLS verification.
If unset, the system root CA pool is used.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# ~/.latch/config
prefix = C-b
shell = /bin/zsh
scrollback = 50000
max-sessions = 32
mouse = true
render-coalesce-ms = 1
ssh-addr = :2222
web-addr = :8080

# Relay
relay-host = unixshells.com
relay-user = rasengan
relay-device = macbook
relay-enabled = true
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR latch (1)
