.TH LATCH 1 "2026-03-09" "latch" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
latch \- terminal multiplexer with built-in remote access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B latch
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B latch
is a terminal multiplexer with built-in SSH and web access.
Sessions and windows are managed by a background daemon.
Local clients connect over a Unix socket, remote clients via SSH,
and browsers via HTTPS/WebSocket.
.PP
Running
.B latch
with no arguments starts or attaches to the default session.
The daemon auto-starts on first use.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B (none)
Start or attach to the default session.
.TP
.B new \fR[\fIname\fR] [\fB\-\-ssh\fR [\fIaddr\fR]] [\fB\-\-web\fR [\fIaddr\fR]]
Create a new session. Defaults to \fBdefault\fR.
With \fB\-\-ssh\fR, start the SSH server (default \fB:2222\fR).
With \fB\-\-web\fR, start the web terminal (default \fB:7680\fR).
.TP
.B attach \fR[\fIname\fR]
Attach to an existing session. Fails if the session does not exist.
.TP
.B ls
List all sessions with their status.
.TP
.B kill \fIname\fR
Kill a session by name.
.TP
.B relay signup
Sign up for Unix Shells relay service. Prompts for email, username,
and device name. Generates a relay key and writes relay config.
.TP
.B relay init
Add a new device to an existing account. Prompts for email and device name.
.TP
.B relay status
Show relay configuration and connection status.
.TP
.B relay enable
Enable the relay connection.
.TP
.B relay disable
Disable the relay connection.
.TP
.B relay ssh\-config
Print an SSH config snippet for connecting through the relay.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
The prefix key is
.B Ctrl-]
(configurable). Press prefix, then:
.PP
.TS
l l.
c	New window
n	Next window
p	Previous window
0-9	Select window by number
g<N><Enter>	Go to window N (for windows beyond 9)
x	Close window
s	Admin panel (connections, SSH/relay toggles)
d	Detach from session
Ctrl-]	Send literal Ctrl-]
.TE
.PP
Double-tap the prefix key quickly to lock the HUD on screen.
Double-tap again to dismiss it.
.SH MOUSE
Mouse events are passed through to applications running inside panes
(vim, less, etc.). Mouse support can be disabled in the config file.
.SH REMOTE ACCESS
.SS SSH
.PP
.RS
.B latch new \-\-ssh
.RE
.PP
Then connect from any machine:
.PP
.RS
.B ssh -p 2222 user@host
.RE
.PP
Authentication uses
.I ~/.latch/authorized_keys
(same format as OpenSSH). If the file is absent, all SSH connections are rejected.
A session name can be specified via the SSH exec channel:
.PP
.RS
.B ssh -p 2222 user@host work
.RE
.SS Web
.PP
.RS
.B latch new \-\-web
.RE
.PP
Then open
.B https://host:7680
in a browser. Uses a self-signed TLS 1.3 certificate (auto-generated).
.PP
The web terminal supports paste (text, images, files) via the browser
clipboard and drag-and-drop.
.SS Relay (Unix Shells)
.PP
The relay service allows SSH access to machines behind NAT via
.BR unixshells.com .
Once configured, anyone with your SSH key can connect:
.PP
.RS
.B ssh -J unixshells.com user@rasengan.unixshells.com
.RE
.PP
The relay is a dumb pipe. All traffic is end-to-end encrypted SSH ciphertext;
the relay server never sees plaintext.
.PP
Sign up with
.BR "latch relay signup" .
The relay key is stored at
.IR ~/.latch/relay.key .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.latch/sock
Unix domain socket for local IPC.
.TP
.I ~/.latch/config
Configuration file. See
.BR latch.conf (5).
.TP
.I ~/.latch/host_key
Ed25519 SSH host key (auto-generated).
.TP
.I ~/.latch/authorized_keys
SSH public keys for remote access authentication.
.TP
.I ~/.latch/tls.crt\fR, \fI~/.latch/tls.key
TLS certificate and key for web terminal (auto-generated).
.TP
.I ~/.latch/relay.key
Ed25519 key for relay authentication (auto-generated on signup).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SHELL
Default shell for new windows (overridden by config).
.TP
.B TERM
Set to
.B xterm-256color
for processes inside latch.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR latch.conf (5),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR screen (1),
.BR ssh (1)
